# Getting and Cleaning Data - Course Project

## Project summary

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate proficiency in collecting, working with, and cleaning a data set to make it suitable for subsequent analysis tasks. To this end, the goal is to prepare a data set adhering to the principles of tidy data [[1]](#ref1), using data collected in the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) study [[2]](#ref2).

## Creating the tidy data set

Run the `run_analysis.R` script; the resulting data set `tidy_data.txt` will be created in the working directory.

## Repository contents

 - `README.md`: This document.
 - `run_analysis.R`: R script responsible for downloading the raw input data from the [UCI repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) and transforming it into the final data set, `tidy_data.txt`.
 - `tidy_data.txt`: Tidy data set generated by the `run_analysis.R` script.
 - `CodeBook.md`: Code book describing the variables and data in `tidy_data.txt`, as well as the processing steps followed to generate it from the raw data set.

## References

<a name="ref1"/>[1] H. Wickham, “Tidy Data,” Journal of Statistical Software, vol. 59, no. 10, Aug. 2014.
 
<a name="ref2"/>[2] D. Anguita, A. Ghio, L. Oneto, X. Parra and J.L. Reyes-Ortiz, “A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones,” 21st European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013: Bruges, Belgium, April 24-26, 2013.

